ROC and Threshold (#25)
mlr-org/mlr3book: bookdown/01-mlr3-basics.Rmd

## Binary classification {#binary}

Classification problems with only two classes within the target variable are called **binary classification**.

> For those, you can additionally specify a **positive class** within the `task` object during task creation or afterwards, which is used afterwards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For such, you can specify the **positive class** within the `task` object during task creation.
```

> If you are not setting this manually, `mlr3` sets the positive class automatically to the first class level which appears in the target variable in the dataset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If not specified during construction, `mlr3` sets the positive class automatically to the first class level which appears in the target variable.
```

```{r 01-mlr3-basics-057}

> # directly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# during construction
```

data("Sonar", package = "mlbench")
b = as_data_backend(Sonar)
task = TaskClassif$new(id = "Sonar", backend = b, target = "Class", positive = "R")

# or afterwards
task$positive = "M"
```

### ROC Curve and Thresholds

> ROC Analysis -- which stands for "receiver operating characteristics -- is a subfield of Machine Learning which studies the evaluation of binary prediction systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ROC Analysis -- which stands for "receiver operating characteristics -- is a subfield of machine learning which studies the evaluation of binary prediction systems.
```

> We saw earlier, that we can simply access the confusion matrix of a prediction by `prediction$confusion`, where, the positive class corresponds to the one set within the task.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We saw earlier that we can access the confusion matrix of a prediction by `prediction$confusion` where the positive class corresponds to the one set within the task.
```

> The positive class is the more important, often smaller one

Reviewer: Isn't this more a subjective feeling?

It is a representation of all predictions, where we count correct and incorrect class assignments.

> False Positive means: We assigned "positive", but were wrong.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An example: "False Positive" means: The model assigned "positive", but it was wrong.
```

We can now normalize in rows and cols of the confusion matrix to derive several informative metrics in imbalanced or cost-sensitive situations:

- **True Positive Rate (TPR)**: How many of the true positives did we predict as positive?

> - **True Negative Rate TNR**: How many of the true negatives did we predict as negative?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **True Negative Rate (TNR)**: How many of the true negatives did we predict as negative?
```

> - **Positive Predictive Value PPV**: If we predict positive how likely is it a true positive?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Positive Predictive Value (PPV)**: If we predict positive how likely is it a true positive?
```

> - **Negative Predictive Value NPV**: If we predict negative how likely is it a true negative?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Negative Predictive Value (NPV)**: If we predict negative how likely is it a true negative?
```

```{r 01-mlr3-basics-058, echo = FALSE}
knitr::include_graphics("images/confusion_matrix(wikipedia).png")
```
Source: [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Evaluation_of_binary_classifiers)

> It is difficult to achieve a high TPR and low FPR simultaneously, so we use them for constructing the ROC Curve.

Reviewer: This logic does not really make sense? Or at least the wording is not precise enough.

We characterize a classifier by its TPR and FPR values and plot them in a coordinate system.
We could also use two different ROC metrics which define a trade-off, like TPR and PPV.
The best classifier lies on the top-left corner while the diagonal is the worst, where classifiers produce random labels (with different proportions).

> If each positive $x$ will be randomly classified with 25\% as "positive", we get a True Positive Rate of 0.25.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If each positive $x$ will be randomly classified with 25\% as "positive", we get a TPR of 0.25.
```

> If we assign each negative $x$ randomly to "positive" we get a False Positive Rate of 0.25.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If we assign each negative $x$ randomly to "positive" we get a FPR of 0.25.
```

> In practice, we should never obtain a classifier below the diagonal, as inverting the predicted labels will result in a reflection at the diagonal.

Reviewer: Explain in one additional sentence what this would mean in practice.

```{r 01-mlr3-basics-059, eval = FALSE}
library(precrec)
task = mlr_tasks$get("sonar")
lrn = mlr_learners$get("classif.rpart", predict_type = "prob")
rr = resample(task, lrn, "cv3")
pred = rr$prediction
evaluated = evalmod(scores = pred$prob[, task$positive], label = pred$truth, posclass = task$positive)

library(ggplot2)
autoplot(evaluated)
```

```{r 01-mlr3-basics-060, echo = FALSE}
library(precrec)
task = mlr_tasks$get("sonar")
lrn = mlr_learners$get("classif.rpart", predict_type = "prob")
rr = resample(task, lrn, "cv3")
pred = rr$prediction
evaluated = evalmod(scores = pred$prob[, task$positive], label = pred$truth, posclass = task$positive)

library(ggplot2)
autoplot(evaluated, curvetype = "ROC")
autoplot(evaluated, curvetype = "PRC")
```

### Threshold Tuning

When we are interested in class labels based on scores or probabilities, we can set the classification threshold according to our target performance measure.
This threshold however can also be **tuned**, since the optimal threshold might differ for different (custom) measures or in situations like const-sensitive classification.

This can be also done with `mlr3`......

## `mlr` -> `r mlr_pkg("mlr3")` Transition Guide

> 

Reviewer: The part below has move recently to chapter "04-technical".
